A document to aid in the creation of the terrain.

terrain is divided by smaller chunks which can vary in height.
An array (or arraylist) with two demensions (300,2), x & y 300 times.
x will be the chunk position and size, going up in increments of
let's say ten for the time being
Y will be the height. the height should vary and I have plans for randomization
but true randomization will be a god-damned mess.

For the semblance of actual terrain, blocks of chunks will have the same height
these blocks being 2-6 chunks wide. Then we need to have jumpable heights and
pit-falls. Jumpable variance means we need to have the maximum difference
between two blocks be a height that the character can jump.

Pit falls will be a harder issue. These pits will need a negative Y
value so they dont get rendered on the screen. The bottom of the screen
will have a kill plain making the player lose a life. But then we need to
get the player to teleport to before the pitfall and continue on.
(I am using the "Royal we" here, it is only me working on this)
so we will need to dial back to the previous block and deposit the player.

So we need an algorithm to make this terrain.
As an avid table-top RPG fan, I shall naturally turn to die rolls to make 
this, well, virtual die rolls anyway. Real ones may slow production down.

First we need to make the blocks.
We'll take a chunk, give it a value. Take the next chunk, give it the same
value. Now we have a minimum block of two. Now here's the fun part.
Chance!
Now since we want to trend to order and not chaos, we will make it
a 2/3rds chance to have the same value as the one before.
This is liable to change but I think it will provide what we're looking for
Now, when the value does change on the 1/3 chance. We want jumpable height
variance. So we take our height variable, stick in the previous y value,
and boom, the random() function has done all our work.
But we need to add in the pit chance, so another die roll (1 in 8?)
every time there's a block change will allow us to spice things up.
Call in the pit option! This will make a block of three chunks with a 
negative height.